SOURCE: https://hmarkets.com/blog/what-is-spot-trading/
================================================================================

Open main menu
What is Spot Trading? Examples, Advantages and Disadvantages
📅 12.22.2022 👤 N Razlozhki

There are multiple different ways a trader can go about their business in order to make money, all of which are vital to understanding if one is to become successful. In this article, we will focus on spot trading, looking at examples, and alternative options, along with the advantages and disadvantages of the process.

We are going to look at the following:








How Spot Trading Works
Spot Trading Example
What Spot Trading is NOT (Forwards and Futures)
Advantages of Spot Trading
Disadvantages of Spot Trading




 

How Spot Trading Works


 

First of all, we must understand what spot trading is and how we use it. The defining feature of spot trading is that the assets involved in the trade are delivered immediately to the buyer. The assets are purchased at the current market price, also known as the spot price, making this a very simple form of trading that is accessible to traders of all levels. Spot trading is often considered the quickest way of trading equity, foreign exchange, commodities and other financial assets, which is very appealing for day traders. Trader would use spot trading when they anticipate that the price of the asset they purchase will increase, so they can sell it in the future for a profit. Traders can also perform short trading in the spot market if they anticipate the price of an asset will fall. Naturally, this means the three key concepts of spot trading are the spot price, trade date and settlement date. As with all trading, profits are not guaranteed, and losses can occur if the asset price diminishes or rises, contrary to the direction of the trade.

There are two main types of spot trading, over-the-counter (OTC) markets and organised market exchange. Market exchange is probably the more familiar of the two, with an organised marketplace available to trade financial assets, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).


 




 

Nowadays, this is mainly performed by electronic trading platforms, as opposed to on a trading floor, allowing huge numbers of trades to be performed simultaneously with instantaneous prices being set. OTC is different in that there is no third-party regulator, and buyers and sellers enter into a mutual bilateral agreement. Prices and quantities can differ from those typically traded on exchanges, with a level of privacy involved, meaning prices are often not disclosed.


 

Spot Trading Example


 

Spot trading is a basic and popular way to trade, and with Hantec, you can trade the spot markets via CFDs. You do not actually take ownership of the assets, but you do benefit from real-time pricing that echoes the primary market. Furthermore, you can open a position using margin, which raises market exposure, potentially leading to larger profits, but this can also lead to bigger losses.

Let's look at an example. Say you believe the price of Gold is going to rise, so you buy the gold market (you go long). If the price is gold rises, you make a profit, and if it falls, you make a loss.




What Spot Trading is NOT (Forwards and Futures)


 

Forwards and futures contracts are another way to trade, which differs from spot trading in that they are an agreement to buy or sell an asset at a certain date in the future as opposed to the transaction being complete immediately. There are a few differences between forwards and futures contracts. Futures contracts are traded on exchanges, with standardised contracts, with uniform terms. They are marked to market on a daily basis, then settled at the end of the contract and come with little default risk, as payment is guaranteed on the maturity date by the exchange.

Forward contracts are made over the counter, so all terms are negotiated between the two parties and are only settled at the end of the contract. This means the contracts have more flexible terms and conditions, such as the number of units of the asset traded. Forward contracts are often used by companies to hedge against risk and volatility. With a forward contract, the seller is protected against the asset falling in price. However, it comes with a certain level of default risk, as payments are the responsibility of the counterparty, so if a party defaults, payment is not guaranteed until the maturity date.


 

Advantages of Spot Trading


 

There are multiple advantages of spot trading compared to other types of trading, such as futures and forward contracts.

There is a higher level of transparency with spot markets, as all transactions and prices are available to the public. This means transactions can be performed with confidence.

Spot trading also provides extra flexibility for the trader to hold onto their investment if markets do not move immediately as predicted. With futures and forwards, the trader is somewhat confined by the future delivery/ settlement date.


 

Disadvantages of Spot Trading


 

Despite spot trading's advantages, its structure does have its limitations. One such limitation is its inability to hedge against the consumption and production of future goods in order to reduce the risk of volatility in the market. This is especially prevalent in the agricultural goods market and the foreign exchange market, where forward and future contracts are often used.

Planning is also harder and less thorough in spot trading. In futures and forward markets, all aspects of the contract are agreed upon, whereas some spot markets can be affected by counterparty default risk.

It can also be argued spot trading is risky. A trader may invest when the price of an asset is inflated, leading to smaller profits or losses. This is largely caused by the volatility of commodities and financial instruments, leading to increased risk. However, it can be argued there is an opportunity cost if the prices moves the wrong way once you have made a future or forward contract.

In the CFD space, on spot trading positions, one must pay the overnight funding rate, also known as the 'Swap' charge. This is the cost of holding a position overnight, and the amount will be dependent on whether you have a long or short position, the instrument you are trading and the size of your trade. Swap rates are calculated from the underlying interest rate of the asset or currency pairs you have open positions in. So, if you are going to hold a

trade overnight and longer than a few days, you will rack up swap fees on spot CFD positions.

Therefore, if you are going to hold longer-term trades for more than a few days, it may be worth trading the CFD future. If you trade the future, the swap fees are included in the spread (which is wider than the spot spread), and it may be less expensive in terms of fees to hold a CFD future position than the equivalent spot position if you are trading over longer timeframes.


 

Spot Trading Takeaways


 

Spot trading is a safe and common way for traders and investors to be involved in a multitude of different financial markets and asset classes. And with Hantec, you can trade many of these differing spot markets through CFDs, including individual stocks, foreign exchange, equity indices, and commodities, including Gold, Silver, Oil and many more. So, why not open an account today?

Disclaimer: The content of this article is intended for informational purposes only and should not be considered professional advice.

Top 5 Blogs

AI vs. Algo: Building Your First Automated Trading Bot with Python (Advanced Edition)
How to Use InsightPro for Smarter Trading: The Ultimate Trading Tool
Gold Price Prediction 2030: Possible Scenarios – Will Gold keep Shining 5 Years from Now?
3 Risk Management Strategies for High-Leverage Forex CFD Trading
Unlock Your Trading Superpower: 10 AI Prompts to Boost Your Forex and Stock Trading Game
Twitter page
Linkedin page
Facebook page
Instagram page
Line page
Youtube channel
Region

Hantec Markets - FSC

Products

Balance Guard
Copy Trading
Liquidity Solutions
Mobile Trading

Important

Costs and Charges
Funding your Account
Open an Account
Try a demo
Marketing Preferences

Legal

Hantec Policies
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms And Conditions
Contact us
+41-22-551-0215
info-mu@hmarkets.com

Your money is in trusted hands

Instant Deposits

Fast Withdrawals

Risk Warning


CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.
Please click here to view our Risk Disclosure.


Hantec Markets use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
You can access our Cookie policy here.
Hantec Markets is a trading name of Hantec Group.


This website is owned and operated by Hantec Markets Holdings Limited. Hantec Markets Holdings Limited, with registration number 2800583, having its registered office at Unit 4609, 46/F Cosco Tower, 183 Queen’s Rd Central, HK, Hong Kong, is the holding company of Hantec Markets Limited and Hantec Markets Ltd. Hantec Markets Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK (Register no: FRN 502635). Hantec Markets Ltd. is authorised and regulated as an Investment Dealer by The Financial Services Commission of Mauritius (License no: C114013940). The services of Hantec Markets and information on this website are not aimed at residents of certain jurisdictions, and are not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use may be contrary to any of the laws or regulations of that jurisdiction. The products and services described herein may not be available in all countries and jurisdictions. Those who access this site do so on their own initiative, and are therefore responsible for compliance with applicable local laws and regulations. The release does not constitute any invitation or recruitment of business.


Hantec Markets does not offer its services to residents of certain jurisdictions including USA, Iran, Myanmar, North Korea and the United Arab Emirates.


MetaTrader, MT4 and MT5 are registered trademarks of MetaQuotes Ltd.
Our services are compatible with MetaTrader 4 & 5®. 
Hantec Markets Ltd does not develop, promote, distribute, partner with, endorse, or otherwise associate itself with any third-party Expert Advisor (EA), algorithmic trading systems, or automated trading software. Clients are strongly advised to exercise caution when engaging with any third-party providers or individuals claiming an association with Hantec Markets in connection with automated trading tools or software.

Hantec Markets is not authorised by the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários do Brasil (CVM) to offer brokerage or securities distribution services for foreign-issued securities to investors residing in Brazil. No reference made here should be interpreted as an offer of services to such investors by Hantec. 