SOURCE: https://hmarkets.com/terms-and-conditions/no-deposit-credit-offer/
================================================================================

Open main menu

No deposit credit offer

Terms and conditions

Introduction

Hantec Markets Limited, authorized and regulated by the Mauritius Financial Services Commission (FSC) under License Number C114013940 (hereafter referred to as “the Company” or “Hantec”), hereby offers the “NO DEPOSIT CREDIT OFFER” (hereinafter referred to as the “NDCO”) to its Eligible Clients, subject exclusively to the terms and conditions set forth herein. This offer is made at Hantec’s absolute discretion.

Conditions of Eligibility

Subject to the Client Agreement and all other applicable business terms and policies, the NDCO is available to Hantec clients who meet the Eligibility Criteria specified below (hereinafter referred to as the “Eligible Clients” or “Eligible Client”).

Participation is contingent upon the existence of a Client Agreement between Hantec and the Eligible Client.

The NDCO may be offered by Hantec from time to time to clients who open live trading accounts with Hantec, where a Client Agreement is in place between the Eligible Client and Hantec. These clients may be referred to Hantec via specific websites and/or social network sites in the context of certain specific promotions, and/or surveys that Hantec may be running from time to time on such specific websites and/or social network sites.

Only individuals who are legally capable of forming binding contracts under the laws of their country of residence may participate in the NDCO. Specifically, individuals under the age of 18, or the legal age of majority in their country of residence, are ineligible.

The participation of Intermediaries/Related Parties is strictly prohibited. Hantec reserves the right at its sole discretion to disqualify any participant whose registration and/or trading data matches that of another participant, including, but not limited to, shared IP addresses. For the purposes hereof, the term “Intermediaries/Related Parties”, when used in these Terms & Conditions, unless the context otherwise requires, shall mean to include any person or entity bearing a relationship with any participant in the NDCO, including, without limitation:

•    family members, such as brothers, sisters, spouses, ancestors, lineal descendants, and collateral descendants;
•    person or entity, whom any participant in the NDCO, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or whom, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, is controlled by, or is under common control with any participant in the NDCO; for purposes of this definition, the term control (including, with correlative meaning, the terms “controlled by” and “under common control with”), as used with respect to any participant in the NDCO, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, of the power to direct or cause the direction of management policies of such person or entity, whether through ownership of voting securities or otherwise.
•    Similarly, persons associated in any manner whatsoever with Hantec and/or with the specific websites and/or social network sites on which Hantec may be running from time-to-time certain specific promotions, contests and/or surveys, in the context of which access to the NDCO is offered, are not allowed to participate in the offer.

Eligibility Criteria
Eligible Clients, who meet the criteria set forth herein can receive $30 trading credit.
To receive the $30 trading credit, clients must agree to the Terms and Conditions via their Client Portal.
No deposit is required.
This NDCO applies to only those clients of Hantec who have received the NDCO promotional email directly from Hantec.
This NDCO is applicable to both new and existing clients who have opened a fully compliance approved account with Hantec Markets and they have either not funded the accounts or funded, traded and stopped trading with Hantec for a period of three months.
This NDCO exclusively applies to conventional accounts, excluding MAM, PAMM, or cent accounts.
Eligible Clients may maintain only one trading account per client and unique IP address for participation in the NDCO. Multiple registrations from the same IP or related IPs are not permitted nor are multiple trading accounts registered with the same personal details. Hantec reserves the right to make a sole determination on whether this has been followed by the client(s).
Specific Terms
The credit from the NDCO applied to the MT4 or MT5 trading accounts of Eligible Clients in accordance with the rules set forth herein, cannot be transferred between other live trading accounts with Hantec.
The maximum NDCO credit that can be applied to any trading account is $30 regardless of the size of the Eligible Client’s further deposits.
The credit cannot be withdrawn.
Should the $30 trading credit generate a profit and that profit is withdrawn from the client’s account, the $30 will be removed from the client’s account.
By participating in this promotion, Eligible Clients agree that the automatic liquidation level or stop-out level for the trading account to which the NDCO is applied is set at 40%.
Unless lost , forfeited or removed for any reason under these terms and conditions, the $30 trading credit will remain in the trading account until the end of the promotion.
Leverage for the NDCO trading accounts will be offered as a maximum of 500:1.
General Terms

It may take up to 24 hours for the Bonus to be credited to an Eligible Client’s account after meeting the specified criteria.



Any funds withdrawn from the Eligible Client’s real account(s) will result in the immediate removal of all previous and current awarded credits and/or bonuses, including this trading Bonus.



Internal transfers between trading Accounts with Hantec will be treated the same as a withdrawal of funds with respect to the trading Bonus. The internal transfer of funds from an Eligible Client’s real account holding the Bonus will result in the instant nullification of the Bonus.



Any trading account deemed inactive (no trading activity for a period over 90 days) will have the Bonus removed.



The Bonus cannot be separately transferred between, or from, Eligible Clients’ real trading accounts with Hantec.



Hantec reserves the right, at its reasonable and sole discretion:



to decline registration of any participant in the NDCO; and
to disqualify and remove any relevant trading activity from any participant in the NDCO who tampers or attempts to tamper with the operation of the NDCO, or breaches these terms, the Client Agreement and/or any of the Hantec terms and policies set forth on in this document.



Under no circumstances shall Hantec be liable for any consequences of any order cancelation or decline, including, but not limited to, any closure order by stop out.



Hantec reserves the right, at its reasonable discretion, to discontinue the offering of this NDCO at any time or to any of its clients, without having to explain the reasons.



Clients can opt out from the NDCO by contacting Hantec on info-mu @hmarkets.com. The relevant department will process your request and inform you accordingly.



Hantec reserves the right to modify, amend or terminate the NDCO or any aspect of it at any time. Prior notice of such changes will be given to clients and Hantec will post any such changes on its website. It is recommended that participants in the NDCO consult these Terms & Conditions on Hantec’s website regularly. Please note that taking part in the NDCO constitutes acceptance and agreement to abide by any such alterations, amendments and/or changes.



By participating in this promotion, participants will be deemed to have accepted all the Terms & Conditions and disclaimers and hold harmless Hantec Markets, their respective parent companies, shareholders, subsidiaries, affiliates, managers, officers, employees, and agents, from any and all liability for any injuries, loss, damage, fines, penalties, actions, judgement, settlement, claims, demands, costs, and expenses of any kind, including legal fees, arising from or in connection with this competition or use of the prizes won or by reason of or related or incidental to any act, default or omission and/or any breach of representation and warranty set forth herein by you under these Terms and Conditions.



Any indication or suspicion, in Hantec’s sole discretion, of any form of arbitrage (including but not limited to risk free profiting), abuse (including but not limited to participant’s trading activity patterns that indicate that the participant solely aims to benefit financially from the Bonus without being genuinely interested in trading in the markets and/or taking market risk), fraud, manipulation, cash-back arbitrage connected to this promotion or any other forms of deceitful or fraudulent activity, will nullify all previously credited Bonus of the Eligible Client’s real trading accounts with Hantec and/or any and all transactions carried and/or profits or losses garnered therein. In these circumstances, Hantec reserves the right, at its sole discretion to close/suspend (either temporarily or permanently) all such Eligible Client’s real trading account(s) with Hantec, cancel all orders and annul all profits of such participant. In these circumstances, Hantec shall not be liable for any consequences of the trading credit cancelation, including, but not limited to, order(s) closure by stop out.



In case of discrepancy between English and non-English texts with regards to the interpretation of these terms and conditions or the scope of their application, the English text shall prevail.

Promotion Disclaimer

Trading on margin carries a high level of risk and is not suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can both amplify profits and losses. Investors should be fully aware of the risks involved and consider their investment objectives and level of experience before trading. It is advisable to seek independent financial advice if in doubt. 

Twitter page
Linkedin page
Facebook page
Instagram page
Line page
Youtube channel
Region

Hantec Markets - FSC

Products

Balance Guard
Copy Trading
Liquidity Solutions
Mobile Trading

Important

Costs and Charges
Funding your Account
Open an Account
Try a demo
Marketing Preferences

Legal

Hantec Policies
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms And Conditions
Contact us
+41-22-551-0215
info-mu@hmarkets.com

Your money is in trusted hands

Instant Deposits

Fast Withdrawals

Risk Warning


CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.
Please click here to view our Risk Disclosure.


Hantec Markets use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
You can access our Cookie policy here.
Hantec Markets is a trading name of Hantec Group.


This website is owned and operated by Hantec Markets Holdings Limited. Hantec Markets Holdings Limited, with registration number 2800583, having its registered office at Unit 4609, 46/F Cosco Tower, 183 Queen’s Rd Central, HK, Hong Kong, is the holding company of Hantec Markets Limited and Hantec Markets Ltd. Hantec Markets Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK (Register no: FRN 502635). Hantec Markets Ltd. is authorised and regulated as an Investment Dealer by The Financial Services Commission of Mauritius (License no: C114013940). The services of Hantec Markets and information on this website are not aimed at residents of certain jurisdictions, and are not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use may be contrary to any of the laws or regulations of that jurisdiction. The products and services described herein may not be available in all countries and jurisdictions. Those who access this site do so on their own initiative, and are therefore responsible for compliance with applicable local laws and regulations. The release does not constitute any invitation or recruitment of business.


Hantec Markets does not offer its services to residents of certain jurisdictions including USA, Iran, Myanmar, North Korea and the United Arab Emirates.


MetaTrader, MT4 and MT5 are registered trademarks of MetaQuotes Ltd.
Our services are compatible with MetaTrader 4 & 5®. 
Hantec Markets Ltd does not develop, promote, distribute, partner with, endorse, or otherwise associate itself with any third-party Expert Advisor (EA), algorithmic trading systems, or automated trading software. Clients are strongly advised to exercise caution when engaging with any third-party providers or individuals claiming an association with Hantec Markets in connection with automated trading tools or software.

Hantec Markets is not authorised by the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários do Brasil (CVM) to offer brokerage or securities distribution services for foreign-issued securities to investors residing in Brazil. No reference made here should be interpreted as an offer of services to such investors by Hantec. 